We started out to get to Tunisia as quick as
possible. And the only way we had to go was to walk
across the top of Africa. But the regimental
commander said, it was raining and we were going to
have our feet wet and we were going to be crippled.
So he said, just don't go any further. I'll be back
later. And he went into Iran. to some motor pool and
gave a hand receipt for a whole flock of vehicles,
and off we went. And we drove all the way across
North Africa. And in those mountains, it was cold.
And as I said, I woke up one day, my ring was gone. And
I didn't have any idea. I figured I'd flung it off my
hand during the night in that cold. But about two to
three weeks later, A driver was cleaning the Jeep,
and he found it down in the floorboard of the Jeep
under a lot of stuff. And so I was, of course, real
glad to get it back.
Are there any stories that you have where somebody
spotted you wearing an Aggie ring? Well, I've had a
lot of people through the years say, what's that
ring? And I say, it's an Aggie ring. Yeah, it's an
Aggie ring. And hear me here, they want to know what
the ring is for. See, they bathe us three times a
week and shave me every now and then, too, with an
electric razor. After I got I had this last
operation, Haskell. I went from being
independent to totally dependent. I'll tell you
about that in a few minutes, but anyway. And
when they go to baby, sometimes that ring comes
off. But they all know what that ring is now. Here,
as soon as I get through the breakfast, They'll
take you down and bathe you. And they bathe me three
times a week. I cannot do anything,
unfortunately. I had a rebuilt knee in here. And I
wore it out pushing this one. And it was the, I
believe, the second or third one I had. Anyway, the
doctor told us there were two doctors that they
recommended in the College of Medicine. I mean,
Texas Medical Center down here, that would have
taken them out and rebuilt them. And so Dr. Tullis
took this one out, and it was the worst, he said, the
worst condition he had ever seen a knee. It
naturally would be. It was full of infection
and bone fragments, and they took it all out of
there and rebuilt it. And for a long time, we had a
piece of bone that wasn't knitting. I finally
ended up getting a big skin graft on this knee. And
as a result, I've not been able to walk a whole lot
since.
When
they took the thing out, he said he'd put a new one
in. And in time, he thought I'd be able to walk on it.
I don't think I'll ever walk again because every
step hurts.
They told me to get these shoes. I call them New
Comfort or something, anyway. They don't slip or
slide. Used to, when I'd get up, I'd slip or slide,
and this would hurt more. But now, and I took a week
in the hospital in Houston
where they worked on me and tried to teach me a
little bit better how to walk and those things. But
I have a hard time because that knee has not healed
yet. I
can do a lot of things, but it'll get better sooner
or later. I hope. Let's see. Describe for you the
great events of commissioning and commencement
day. Sure. I can't think that far back. That would
have been the spring of 38.
Commissioning, let me think. Well, we graduated
in the morning and were commissioned in the
afternoon, if I remember this right. Also,
at that time, I believe we had a review for the
reviewing officers. Came from Fort Sam. Oh, and do
you remember Major R? Who? Did you ever hear of
Major R? Well, he would have been a captain for a
thousand years for this reason.
No one knows why, but when the visiting officer
came in on the train from San Antonio, they sent
Major Orr down to beat him. So he walked up to him and
didn't salute him, nothing. He just stuck his hand
out and says, Orr is my name, O-R-R. God, I'm
telling you, that man, that colonel, I should have
gone through the truth. And he...
And he had a dog named Rip.
Rip Orr? Rip Orr. And we would go to Camp Bullets in
the summer.
Let me close this door.
Rip went everywhere. Rip went everywhere that
Major Orr went. Captain Orr, he finally got
promoted to Major, though. I believe he was the
Major when he went to meet the Colonel. Anyway,
we'd be out on the fire line at camp, putting
bullets, and old Rip would be out there, too. And I
remember Orr said, Rip! gets your ass off the funny
line before you get perforated
and always with his nasal tone you know but uh we had
a commissioning was i said we just it was a formal
ceremony and that's in the afternoon after
graduation in the morning and after we were
commissioned i believe that we commissioned we
put on a Of course, that was a highlight in all our
lives, that we were in the thing. See, everybody
didn't get an advance contract. If you got an
advance contract, you got a commission. And
that's when you got rid of the government-issued
uniform and bought your own. And I remember that,
again, I got one of everything I needed in a uniform
for $100. And Lord, I don't know what that cost
them. But I do know that it was much, much later when
the war came on that I had to buy another uniform.
A commencement was held at Guyon Hall.
Let me think. I don't know where it was held. I guess
it was held everywhere. Do you remember who the
speaker was? Who came, friends and family, who
came for your commissioning and commencement? I
didn't have anybody. Let me think of it.
Graduation and commencement. See, my
grandmother raised me. Yes. By this time, she had
retired and moved. She had moved to Tyler to be with
her daughter. And I don't think we had anybody
come. Did Freda come? I don't remember. I'm sure
she didn't because we didn't start going together
until my junior year,
I believe. I can't remember all those things,
really. As you graduated, what kind of life did you
think you were going to be pursuing? Well, I
thought I would be working in landscape work, but
there weren't any jobs available.
The guys in front of us had gone to work for Lamberts
in Dallas, and they were shelving manure. So I
thought it was my scoop. And I went back to school
and got my master's. I had 20 hours of work over my
master's. And so I got to do my master's in one year.
At A&M? At A&M, which would be a term paper now
anywhere else. And I do the thesis on the use of
native plants in landscape design. Who was your
chairman? Who directed it? Mr. Hensel. But they
gave me the chairman of the English department on
the committee. And he read a line. I couldn't buy
and pay to have it typed. But he read a line so bad, 14
pages, that I had to have redone and no one to do it
with. And he complained, he said, this boy has
personified all these plants. They're just like
people to him. I said, yes, that's right. He used it
that way. Was that Dr. Cofer? No, Summey. Oh, Dr.
Summey. Yeah. Dr. Summey. That threw me for a loop.
And I spent a week in the hospital after I got
through with all of that. See, I did that thing in
nine months, which was too quick. Anyway, I spent a
week in the hospital. And
month of that, meanwhile, I got a good job with that
master's degree. Jacques Goebbels, who I
mentioned earlier, brought this young man up. I
mean, he was brought over by Mr. Gilchrist, to
start the roadside beautification program. And
Jack Goebbels did it. So I got a job in District 9 as
roadside beautification chairman. And that was
$140 a month. That was big money. What part of state
was District 9? Waco. Waco with Edwards. And there
were seven counties around as far as Hamilton
County. And
I worked the first
eight or nine months in the soil laboratory. And
Mr. Puckett was the district engineer. He came out
one day and said, well, I put you out here to find out
if you could work. And he says, you don't mind
working, so we're going to give you We're going to
make you a roadside beautician for this district.
So get your car and get ready to do the roadside
work. Well, then we had a person like that in every
district in the county, I mean in the state. And we
had regular meetings and lectures and seminars
and things. And we'd have to write books and little
pamphlets on this. So we saw the beginning of the
Texas Highway. that spread all over the country.
But John Goebbels was a good man. As you were
getting ready to start that first job, how well
prepared did it seem A&M had made you for that kind
of work? Well, I thought good. I was well pleased
with what I did, and I'm very happy all the way
through school under Ms. Henson's leadership,
because if it was something we didn't need to know,
he'd tell us. And he didn't say a word, but he'd tell
us. And we got good advice. And also the man that I
told you about in entomology, Dr. Little, I
believe is his name, both of them were good
teachers, excellent teachers. And Mitch was a
great mentor. He'd tell me all kinds of things. I
have to say, every time I went back to A&M, I went to
see him. And we spent many happy hours together
working on these things. But I thought I was as well
prepared as anybody as I could be in a new field. It
was a brand new field. They didn't even know what I
was taking at home. Somebody asked my
grandmother, what's Robert taking? Well, I don't
know what he's having to leave me alone, which I
thought was pretty good advice. Now, when did you
buy your first car?
I got my message in. So it's after you. After you
leave school? Oh, yeah, after I leave school. I
didn't need a car until I got to do the roadside
work. Now, did you ever hitchhike when you were an
Aggie? Oh, yeah. Describe how an Aggie
hitchhiked. Going my way. Of course, you know we
had regular stations. You stayed in line, took
your turn in line. Of course, my problem was, when I
was in Transactor Franklin, coming back to see
Russ, there wasn't anybody coming this way. Or
they were already full. And I know one time, during
my senior year, My grandmother had sold the hotel
and moved to Tyler, and we, a whole bunch of us, got
stuck in Palestine. I think there's 25 or 30 of us in
there. And there wasn't much, I mean, tell you, we
thought we were going to spend the week in
Palestine. And all of a sudden, everybody got
waked up that The bus, a local bus, I need to know the
kid's name, picked everybody up and took them all
the way to college. My gosh. That was something.
Now, if you were going north to Franklin, where did
you catch the ride in College Station? Called it
Brian. Where? On the corner of the courthouse,
across the street from the courthouse. Now, how
did you get from the campus up to Brian? Same way,
some way. Oh. Yeah. With your thumb? With my thumb.
And a long time as you were going to Franklin, you
didn't get a very good priority in Hearn. People
were going to go further than that. They didn't
want you taking the ride just to Franklin, 13
miles. Did you ever have any bad experience
hitchhiking? No. Did you have any interesting
experiences that you'd like to share? Rode
with some interesting people? Well,
nothing special except that bus incident. We got
30-some people on one corner and couldn't get out.
We're still in there, I believe it. While you were
an undergraduate, what did you do in the summers?
Worked. Where? Right there. You stayed on the
campus? I never went home. And worked full time? I
never went home. Where did you and your buddies go
to have some fun other than hardlickers? No, you
never went to hardlickers. Where did you go for fun
on a Saturday night? I didn't have to have any fun. I
probably washed pots all day
How often did you go home to Franklin? I didn't go
home I didn't go I was going to work I needed to work
to get a little money to go to school next year and I
was to go and then you were Did you by chance
encounter Mr. Gilchrist soon after he got here?
Oh, yes. Describe him, please. Well, he was, I
thought, a very good president. Everybody was a
little bit aghast to hire somebody from the
University of Texas, you know, to take that job.
No, he had a good vision, and he was determined that
we would get the roadside program underway, and
that's when I brought Jock Goebbels over and...
I enjoyed Mr. Gilchrist very much. Henry, his son,
told me that when they first moved here that he was
homesick for Austin because the campus was so
rural and isolated, he thought. But his dad bought
him a bike as a bribe to make him happy. I hadn't
heard that one. After he retired... He had his
garage made into a den in our study. And he had all
kinds of citations on all the walls. And she
collected unusual bottles. And I had a green
bottle shaped like a human. And I gave it to her. But
no, I enjoyed Mr. Gilchrist very much. He had some
friends in Mumford. I don't know their name.
Anyway, she was a great roadside person. I can't
think of her name. Too many years.
Well, that's beside the point now. On the campus
where all the faculty lived, was, describe that as
a, that was a little community in its own. A little
community in its own. And I was told that to get
people there, they had to have housing, because
there wasn't any place for them to live in that
area. And I remember where they, the different
ones, Dean's house, and as you went from now, what
would it be, the MSC corner, Mr. Hensel's house was
on that corner. And
over where
the football dormitory is, there were two streets
over there that had faculty houses on them, too.
And that's where Mr. McGinnis lived. He was a
professor in the department. keep Frida farm when
she came down. She can stay with them. Did any of
those faculty folks ask you to help them with their
flower gardens or anything like that? No.
Did you go on court trips? Oh, yeah. Describe what a
court trip was like. How did you get there and what
did you all do? Well, they were always training
back in the early days. And you were supposed to go,
but you were irrespective. They didn't care. You
would end up in Fort Worth, which is at the Union
Station, and get organized and do the parade. And
they also would...
My freshman year, not having enough money, they
said, we'll get you on the train, don't worry. They
got me on the train with the seats like this, put me
back in the man's suitcase in front of me, and I rode
forward that way. And more than one kid did that
way.
You'd be expected to be at the Union Station in Fort
Worth at 8 o'clock on a Saturday morning, and you'd
parade down. And
that was it. And you went to Austin or Houston each
year also?
I mean, we went to Austin, I know. Dallas or Fort
Worth? That was for alternate years. And then
Austin and Houston alternate years. Did you ever
have any bad core trip experiences? No. I don't
remember going to Houston. Maybe we did. But I
didn't have any bad experiences.
The student indulgences of the time, people
smoked? Did the Aggies smoke much? They weren't
allowed to smoke. And
they went to Mr. Ed's, was whiskey. Uncle Ed's.
Where did they buy whiskey? Don't touch it to this
day, so I don't know. I know that there was talk of
going across the county line somewhere. Going
towards Snook to Whiskey Bridge. Okay. Okay. And
did you and your buddies know the words marijuana?
No. And cocaine? Never heard of any of that. Did
some people chew tobacco in that era? Oh, they made
the certain... The band, I believe, made the kids
chew tobacco at the first baseball game and got
them all sick. Certain organizations made the
kids chew tobacco at the first baseball game and
that made them all sick. Did you go to, as an
undergraduate, did you go to an Aggie muster? I
never heard of muster. Before the war, you had not
heard of them? That's what I... Do you have that
from any people? No, you're saying the same thing.
I have the impression that muster really became a
big Aggie tradition as a result of the...
Corregidor. Corregidor muster. To be perfectly
frank, I don't believe I ever heard of Muster, the
four years I was there. And that may have been again
because I was working on it. There's a lot of things
I didn't participate in because I was working all
that. I got a call from the Alfred Walt people one
day. I heard of Alfred Walt. I don't know what it was
because I didn't participate. I was working. I had
to work to stay in school. And it's just that way.
All right, now this one I think I know, though. Did
you attend to silver taps? Yes, we had silver taps
back then. Describe it, what it meant. Where was it
held? Clean place still now, I believe.
Did you and your buddies take Silver Tap
seriously? Oh, yes. Very serious. We thought that
was the most serious thing on the campus at the
time. And I know that they played from up on the dome
up there. And it was very impressive still in the
night.
What is it that creates Aggie spirit, Aggie pride?
Aggie pride. It's just the fact that when you get
into it, it never gets out of your system. As you rub
shoulders day to day and you have the feeling of
belonging to an organization and you get bonded
together,
Aggie pride is just the fact that when you came
there, you were nothing. You got to be somebody.
And for the first time, you knew people very
closely, became very close friends. And like I
said, I think the most severe blow I had was when
David Murphy was killed in an airplane right at the
beginning of our senior year. He had already asked
me to be a Ross volunteer, which I turned down. He
was on the Coastal Artillery of all places, too. I
think we got to know each other in class.
I
went back to the cemetery every time, but I finally
quit going. What are the other events other than
Silver Taps that helped to create that pride,
that spirit? Well, at that time, it was the fact
that you belonged to a group, a special group. I
belonged to A Infantry, and I've always enjoyed
those people. They've been very close. In fact,
one of my very best friends in A Infantry just died
this summer.
It's the cohesiveness and the fact that you belong
and you know you belong. And everybody's good to
each other. As you were preparing to leave A&M for
that first job, did you feel well prepared for that
task?
I thought I was well prepared for anything but A&M
because of the new program. They're starting
brand new in Texas. And of course, The Texas
Wildfire, the Texas Roadside Development
Program has spread all over the country. I know
where it started and who did it. We used to take a He
used to mow the field and get the straw and throw
them on the road. Now they have wildflower farms
you can buy them by the pounds. And you know what
they do now? They put them in capsules, gelatin
capsules, and just throw them on the roadside and
they melt and go right there.
Were you concerned
about what was happening in Europe at the time you
left A&M? Yes. In fact, when I was working at the
highway department, Mr. Puckett, an old agate,
would come out every morning at 10 o'clock and turn
his radio on, and we'd listen to what was happening
over there. We were all very much aware of it.
And we pretty well followed the development of it
all the way up.
I'm almost finished now with this first part. What
have we left out of your student experiences that
we should have covered?
Student experiences? Let me see here. I might
lose, but I...
This is, of course, the thing that I did. I made fun
of those sophomores, which people thought I was
crazy to do, because they knew I was going to get
patted on. And I didn't care, because I didn't
think they could hurt me, and they didn't. Ga Ga
Kama was the only man who hurt me. And I never did
come back. When he hit me that one lick on the third
floor, the heart, oh, I just kept going. But the
rest of them, I didn't care. They didn't bother me
much. Didn't let it bother me, because I figured